So, what we learned yesterday is that,
so we went through the applications,
right?
And now I know all the names already.
And, I'm waiting for a couple of people
to show up so, there's anonymity.
And that was a misunderstanding during
my student career was that I could
be just sitting in the back like all
of you are trying to do now, but
you see everybody, and
you see who's not showing up.
So it's 2:06,
do you have packets with you?
It wasn't, great.
So, actually, we have a special guest,
Dr. [UNKNOWN] From
the Japanese Space Agency who is trying
to understand what [UNKNOWN] Into space.
The answer's probably yes.
So you're in charge of this
when the next person shows up,
you just squeeze the duckie.
You're, [LAUGH} you have the duck.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> You guys, it's 3:07.
That's fine.
Okay, so let's start.
Thanks for coming,
welcome to the Duckietown Engineering
new employee orientation.
Today, you will hear from me,
Andrea Censi, and
you will hear from some
of our project managers.
So today is meet the team.
Actually this is just all for
the team, just where five more,
but that is the firm for the day.
And you just hear from our CEO,
Janet, who is back from Japan.
That's Japanese, sorry.
All right.
So, last time I showed you this slide,
which is our company roster.
Plus the space for the new hires, right,
and we thought it would be like one,
two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12.
So what happened is that Those were
the positions that were available.
So we prepared 12, duckie boxes.
So, inside there is everything that
you need to, build your robot.
Plus, extra duckies.
More [UNKNOWN].
So what happened,
is that we see with the job applications.
68 job applications and
most of you also brought very,
very long essays and we went
through all of them very carefully.
That's why I know the names.
And what happened was that,
so the first step was to
let's say remove the people who will
not do well in this class this year.
Right.
So those people are probably
not here in this room.
And then we were left with the,
still many, right.
And in the end what we did
was going [UNKNOWN] we
went through the list once more and
then we were the question
that you ask was whether we were excited
to have the person in the class.
So the last question is
not whether you can do it,
but also whether we're also
excited to have you here because
you'll contribute something to
the Dunckietown experience.
And you will see in the future.
I forgot that Wednesday we plan to meet
the students, meet the new employees,
that there is also a wide variety
of experiences in the room.
There's actually, very big diversity
of backgrounds and I think that all of
you contribute something to to Duckietown
individually, like we went through.
Each of you is here because we were very
excited to have you in particular here.
So the environment was that
we did this exercise and
we hoped that the number would be 12.
But, okay.
Now, as follows.
You can look around.
And that number was higher.
So we decided, well, change of plans.
So it's not 12 anymore.
That just gone, and on, and on,
and on, and on, and on, and on.
And the answer is more like 30.
And so we went to our CEO, Don Lerner,
and we asked him, we are really,
really excited to have
30 people in the room.
Can we do it?
And so
this means that we need more resources.
It means that we need more robots, but
we need more people to
help us with the class.
Probably need more space and
so our CEO is in charge of resources and
our CEO said yes.
So thank you John.
>> Well one of the things I should
say is that in any startup,
you know how big that first
building should be and
how you're going to sort of grow
over time is a big question.
I haven't done a startup, but
I've seen other people's startups.
And so, with this decisions
comes a little risk that things,
might just take a little whole to
get those resources, but just please
be patient because the enthusiasm is so
high that we decided to go for it.
And so it's a little bit of
a leap into the unknown, but
I think we can harness the extra
personnel power of the bigger and
do more together this
semester in our own home.
>> Yes.
And that's a good point.
So scaling up from 12 to 30.
What are some challenges?
And so I think we are currently
working out those challenges.
So, but at this point you know we cannot
guarantee that everything will be perfect.
Like we have a very tight schedule, we
have a supply chain analyst [INAUDIBLE].
So the 12 boxes were ready actually 18
boxes were ready because you know just
in case.
But the extra 12 we hope that they're
ready, but they know they should be ready.
Might be some components are missing.
Actually one thing that's missing for
us now is manpower, so we had
told that we would give you the kit and
you would not have to do any soldering.
Now actually we said
why we [INAUDIBLE] and
the students understand whether some
of them could do some soldering, and
if that was the case we asked you
personally and, thanks if you said yes.
And so, I think some of the success
of this class will be due to the students
helping other students and helping us.
But I think it will be a great experience.
Okay, so just to now clarify the roles.
If you have received an email
like this that says,
you are offered the title of
Vehicle Autonomy Engineer,
that means that you are Duckietown
Engineering employee in training.
And these people get the full sort of
experience, they get the equipment,
they get personal support, they get all
the accounts and so on and so forth.
There are like a couple of exceptions.
People that have already [INAUDIBLE] and
will get the student experience but
will not register for the class,
of course, and we hope that they
can work on their own a little bit.
But that is kind of the exception.
So then there are also a couple new
mentors and central collaborators.
And for this, it's really adopting,
so you should come to us.
The lecture is really for the students.
So, everything is different for you.
So you should just come and ask us,
then there are also what you
call unconventional students.
And at some point,
we had to draw the line.
And the line for us was resources, because
just the one want to be robots very badly
want everybody to have maybe
laptops to do experiments.
So at some point, we have to put
a threshold, then there are people
having a threshold, we would be happy for
them to be involved somehow.
And if that is the case,
we call the commissioner students.
So this would not be
registered to the class, but
you might be involved in some capacity.
Second, you are welcome to come to
our lectures, use our materials.
Those are free to use, but we cannot
really guarantee personal support.
And in that case, you should have
a discussion with our VP of recruiting,
Liam Paull about exactly the terms.
For example, for us,
money is not really that big of a problem.
So, we can buy extra parts.
In just the effort to put
everything together nicely,
that just doesn't scale enough to a 30.
So, one important message
is the following.
That if you've got a job offer,
then you can do the job.
So, we don't believe in
the burnout culture mentality.
So if you're here in the room,
it means that we believe
that you can discuss
without burning out and within nine hours.
Of course,
you're welcome to nine hours per week and
you're welcome to work more of course.
So if this is not true, if at any point,
you think that you are struggling
too much just tell us.
And one good thing about this class
is that the tutorial part is really
a tutorial, we're actually what we start
with is basically all the systems working
and then we remove some parts and
we ask you to right the part back.
So, in principle and
there's a knob that we can turn.
So, how much do you have to do and
how much is done for you?
And let's look at the knob at
the zero position, it means that
you need to have enough confidence
to run things on Linux essentially.
So, and
I'm sure that all of you can do that or
could learn what you don't know yet.
And so just tell us, so we don't
believe in some one order per child is
our policy and then we have no child
left behind is the second policy.
So just tell us and
we'll try to adjust the difficulty or
maybe we add extra lab sessions.
Maybe if you were struggling more
with the, I don't know, Git.
We would have another Git lab in addition.
Fortunately, we have lots of people
on the staff and you can use us.
Lots of room.
Well, we have lots of resources.
So we have Beaver Work, that's almost.
So, we can get extra lab sessions and
things like that.
So, the next steps is the following.
So tonight, our human resources
department will get in touch with you and
you will start with this process where
you have to to create 11 accounts.
Now, all of them are necessary.
The one which is essential is Slack.
So essentially, on Slack,
you will have 24/7 support from us.
And to make this a strong point.
So we have this no email policy,
even among the team.
So after Tuesday,
after you start with Slack,
we don't read any of your
email like literally.
Because otherwise,
it's just unsustainable.
Actually, to do a Duckietown all over in
my inboxes are like just piling up email.
So if you just send us an email,
you will just be in the pile.
We'll never read it.
So the only exception is in this couple of
days, if you have a request of questions,
you should contact HR,
which is hr@duckietown.com.
Just to get you setup to get you Slack.
That is the only reason
you should send an email.
So, this is the week.
So on Wednesday,
we have a meet the new employees session.
So the idea here is that tonight,
I will send you a form with very
basic information about you.
For example, what are you strong at?
Or also, what is your name?
For example, what is your preferred
name as opposed to your full legal name?
The only information that we ask
you the public part of that will
be with on slides.
So on Wednesday,
everybody gets on the stage just to
give you a one minute presentation.
This is me, this is what I like to do.
This is what I want to do in Duckietown.
I think this is important, because soon,
let's say in a couple of weeks.
We were actually just
teaming arrangements, so
you want to choose a teammate.
We encourage you to find the teammates
that are somehow complimentary to you.
First of all, roughly,
most of you have maybe background or
[INAUDIBLE] or some engineering.
And after you have a CS program,
I think the best thing is when
we went passing from CS, one from money.
And so
teaming I think will be left to you,
but this is the opportunity for everybody
to know every everybody else's design.
My suggestion is to become
friends with Gary Rosman,
because he already has a PhD and
he does computer vision for a living.
And so Gary Rosman should look for
maybe somebody who's
complementary to that.
So well for me, so
the next part of the presentation
is from our project managers and
the first one is the area lead for
computer vision, Dr. Changhyun Choi.
Please.
>> My name is Changhyun Choi,
I'm a Computer Vision Area Lead.
I'm a Postdoc at CSAIL.
I'm working with Professor Daniela Rus.
I'm generally interested
in copy represent robotics,
especially object recognition,
object tracking, object optimization and
the repercussions to
a robotic made information.
So those are some examples of my field,
my research video.
This is the Using particular filter and
3D [UNKNOWN] model.
It actually track the transparent object
even though it's really challenging
because the background shape is actually
visible through the reflection,
still it can direct track.
And this is the [UNKNOWN] tracking.
So as with these these kind of
[UNKNOWN] and [UNKNOWN] camera and
used that and
I also used the color information and
surface summary information and
[UNKNOWN] information.
And also I applied
the [UNKNOWN] filter for that.
And even though I used
the 2000 particles and
it was highly polarized in the GPU so
it's real time.
So, yeah, yeah.
I'd like to say that I'm
happy to be a part of
the Duckie Town Engineering Operation and
also I'm pretty excited about
to be a project mentor.
So for object detection, well, object
detection is really one the important part
for this Duckietown system because In
order to make the town really happy,
we need to conform to
the traffic regulations.
In our duckietown we have 12 different
traffic signs here, different
traffic signs, and we need to detect those
traffic signs or the traffic lights.
And we also need to detect pedestrian,
because if we
couldn't detect a pedestrian,
you might be real tragedy, right?
So here in the case,
well we need to detect ducky because
we are living in Ducky town.
And so we need to detach [UNKNOWN],
in our case Duckiebots.
The main challenge is for
object detection.
The first one is accuracy.
So again,
if we miss the detect pedestrian or
vehicle, it might be really,
it has a lot of cost.
So we need to make sure
that our protection will be
as [INAUDIBLE] as possible,
maybe around more than 99%,
but it's not there yet but
we need to push forward for that.
Also research constraints so
we are thinking about
low very small low cost
computer assistant.
So there are a lot of constraints
like computation power or
so the resolutions of the images or
sometimes there will be some latency
between the sensor and the actual state.
And also, there are a lot of environmental
variations such as illuminations But
because of so much what might
be really tricky for a camera.
So we can [UNKNOWN] Duckietown
will be an indoor environment.
But who knows maybe later
we can try an outside.
In that case we need to [UNKNOWN]
some snow or maybe even rain.
So we need to really think about
how to make the perception robust.
And we also need to make the algorithm as
scalable as possible so that we need to
detect multiple objects in the scene.
So let's say that maybe there might be
more than one traffic signs in the scene,
we still need to at the same
time detect car and pedestrian.
So the algorithm should be really
efficient and also scalable.
And or so the occlusion and
the clutter is one of the big
challenges in computer vision.
So if there is some partial questions
we need to [UNKNOWN] with it.
Or so if their environment isn't really
clear, we know we need to take out that.
All right, and for
this Duckietown project,
I will develop two different,
two big module.
The one is grand production
NTL 1H Optic factor.
And Grand Protection is mapping between
image plane to actual ground plane.
So to do that we need to do Camera
Calibration, so in one of the labs I will
show how to dual camera calibration
both intrinsic and extrinsic.
And [UNKNOWN] will give some
sort of baseline of the detector
which is using histogram
of gradient features.
[UNKNOWN] and also,
using also [UNKNOWN] vector machines.
And, Project, for projects,
the goal is very simple,
beating the baseline,
in terms of, accuracy, or time.
Maybe both.
So, maybe one project I do,
be maybe a on top of the base sign,
maybe we can explore some
additional information.
For example maybe things think on this.
If the camera look at the front or
direction of the road,
actually the theme is actually
constraint by a lot geometrical effects.
Such as well the bigger and the closer
object would look look like bigger.
And the actual farther
object would be very small.
And there's a suggestion may
not be on the over the sky.
Well in principle Duckie can fly.
But in our town Duckie can't fly.
So we don't need to
detach Duckie on the sky.
So we have some sort of,
kind of information so
we can easily suppress false
positives from the sky area.
Another idea would be maybe
using some circuit [INAUDIBLE].
So long time ago,
the traditional approach for
object-detachment models
using sliding window.
Which is basically detect
from the laptop to laptop.
And we just calculated the correlation
between that HoG feature,
and the extra HoG feature from the scene.
And then just calculate the correlation
one by one and it takes a lot of time.
But one of the recent ideas was
that using selective search.
So instead we're using some
sort of [UNKNOWN] search.
We can do more smart way.
We can do the detection in with the more
selective way, so
the idea is that using segmentation as
a pre-processing and
then try to detach one by one.
And it actually turned out
that it is much fast and
sometimes much better
in terms of accuracy.
And the left one is now well there's a lot
of people made her love the team learning,
so team learning is kind of state
of the art in computer vision.
So maybe we can also try that
team learning example for
this kind of problems that,
so, this is my idea, and
if you have a different idea,
I'm happy to talk You guys.
And test my, this is my laptop and
I'd like to introduce Dr. Michel Novitsky.
>> Thank you, sir.
Thank you, [INAUDIBLE].
So I'm social chair for Duckietown and
I would like to know about
Pub Night on Thursday.
Could I get a show of hands who thinks,
so I'll give you between five and eight,
cuz if it gets too late,
that's kind of ridiculous.
So who would like to come to
Duckietown Pub Night at 5 o'clock?
Okay so.
>> Wait what's the question?
>> Well raise your hand at which time you
think is best for Duckietown Pub Night.
So right now, three.
Okay, great.
What about 6 o’clock?
Okay, getting a little better.
What about seven?
That's rough.
We'll do six till like eight.
How about that?
That seems like an appropriate time.
So We had a lot of
fun today taking pictures this morning and
apparently all the pictures made it.
That's great.
>> So I'm Dr. Michael Misha Novitzky I'm
a post doc here at MIT
>> I work at the laboratory for
Autonomous Marine Sensing Systems.
I'm directly supervised by
Michael Benjamin and Henrik Schmidt.
I came through to robotics
in a very wayward path.
I actually started in psychology at
Colorado College, graduating in 2004.
And while I was waiting to
get into the PhD program For
psychology for child development.
A couple of my pilot friends
came into the gym and
were like, listen we almost crashed
into these on-man aerial vehicles.
These are super cool.
You need to go check them out.
So I went to go check them out and
I haven't looked back.
I completely switched my field
from psychology into robotics,
finding my way to Georgia Tech.
And while I was there as a graduate
research assistant I worked at GTRI,
which is Georgia Tech's
applied research branch.
Which led me to work on
some fantastic projects.
So the first one is the Cust D Project,
which you see on the upper right.
In this project we were demonstrating
that we can do heterogeneous teaming
between a ground vehicle and
two aerial vehicles.
Now, this is one of my favorite projects
because the unmanned ground vehicle,
was Sting.
Which was, Georgia Tech's entry into
the urban grand challenge, right.
So it was an autonomous car,
we took it from the competition and
applied it to this project.
So, what would happen is the aerial
vehicles would go up in the sky,
searching for the target.
When they found it they would
communicate together and
then to get the car to go autonomously
to that location and take more pictures.
So fantastic.
I really had a great
time doing that project.
But one of the things that it highlighted
was that when communications degrade,
then our performance would also degrade
as far as completing the mission.
So I thought well what can we
do when communications go down?
Can we leverage other things?
And so that led me to using recognition
for cooperation because we had cameras and
other sensors we shouldn't talk about,
that could actually see the aerial
vehicles change their pattern or
trajectory depending on
what they were doing.
Going from search into some
sort of hover over the target.
And so I started looking at using
recognition of those different
trajectories to finish the mission.
That led to my thesis work, over here,
Trajectory Adaptation for Recognition.
Where I as an autonomous teammate would
modify my trajectories in the way that I
perform my task,
based on my teammate's sensor modality and
their recognition capabilities.
So that was a lot of fun.
But let's talk a little bit more
about what I'm doing here at MIT.
I'm actually assisting a PHD
student named Kyle Warner.
In lawful obstacle avoidance,
also described as coal rates.
So what's different about surface vessels
doing different rules of the road is that
it's based on location and dynamics and
all these different rules
that you have to follow.
And we're actually generating a velocity
obstacle approach to do this work.
And my favorite part is that we get
to hang out at all times of the day
on the water just in a boat making sure
things work well and it's a lot of fun.
The main project I'm doing
here at MIT is Aquaticus.
And what we are looking at
is human-robot interaction
with the human embedded in
the same environment as the robot.
So in this project I
have a person sitting in
their own little kayak that's motorized,
called a Mokai.
Where they're communicating with an
autonomous vehicle to perform [UNKNOWN] or
emission.
So right now some of
the things you will notice.
The challenges in my work or
that learning environment, so here's me.
Again, my favorite time is when
I'm in the field with my robot,
so whenever I'm in the lab in closed
doors, I'm kind of a sad panda.
So here I am a happy panda
hanging out with the robot, and
I'm communicating to say just something
super simple, just follow me.
And unfortunately the robot says I am
programmed to follow your commands.
Because I've stole things from Terminator,
Arnold Schwarzenegger
is talking back to me.
And I was like very excited that the
robots following me, and I turn around and
the robots not moving at all.
Right?
So what's going on?
So it's great for my abs, because I get
a great ab workout constantly looking over
my shoulder, but terrible for
completing my mission.
So what we wanna look at is what's the
salient information that the robot should
be telling me, and
what should I be telling the robot to do?
Then what about the timing
of the missions.
How frequently should I
be getting information?
Cuz if it's too much,
I won't be able to follow.
Is there a message standard?
So on the radio,
if you are a good radio operator you
actually need to follow certain rules by
giving my handle, who are you sending
the message to, and back and forth.
What are my human preferences?
Cognitive load is a big topic and
the reason is especially on the water.
If I'm on the water,
this is a nice day, right?
So we got some video.
But if I'm on the water and there's waves
and it's raining, I'm kinda miserable.
If I have more robots than just one,
it's hard to keep track of
what they're doing behind me.
So I wanna see exactly what
the cognitive load is in reducing that.
And then also, do I trust the vehicle?
So in this case I don't trust this
vehicle cuz I turned around and
it wasn't moving and I was like, okay I
don't believe anything you're saying.
But these ideas don't just
apply to the marine area.
It also applies to autonomous vehicles.
So the thing I wanna give you guys
in part of this little presentation
is trying to draw inspiration
either from fantasy in this case or
anywhere in life to help you
drive what you're doing.
And in this case, we have Michael Knight
from a great TV show in the 80s,
and it had to reboot in the 2000s.
Well, Michael Knight was
awesome crime fighter.
Had a watch and
he would say to his autonomous car, Kit.
There was a a great episode where
he was trapped in a prison and
he couldn't get out.
So he was like Kit come get me.
And then Kit autonomously came and
crashed through the wall, hops in the car,
and then leaves.
Fantastic, right?
>> So what I wanted to see is,
can we actually reproduce something like
Michael Knight can do when he
has a dialogue with the robot?
So if Michael Knight said, where are you?
And Kit responds,
I have these GPS locations.
Then if you don't have a map and you
don't know what the GPS coordinates are,
that means nothing to you, right?
So you would say, what?
And then you would hope
the robot would respond with,
I'm at these street intersections, I'm
this far away from you, blah, blah, blah.
So the other thing that we wanna
stress in Duckietown is that
while some of these ideas
have big aspirations,
we can actually take a small chunk of that
and apply it to be tested in Duckietown.
So in fact, I will be taking over and
whoever works with me will be
taking the spot of Michael Knight.
We might not necessarily have a cool
watch unless you guys have an Apple
watch you wanna program.
And then I'll replace Kit with my own
version of Kit, which is Duckiebot Kit.
You see that little thing right there and
Duckiebot on top.
So, I would like to take these big parts,
put it into Duckietown and
see exactly what is kinda information
can I transfer between me and
the robot through human interaction?
I'd like to introduce next
a PhD candidate, Heejin Ahn.
>> Hi, I'm Heejin Ahn.
Thank you.
I'm Heejin Ahn, a Ph.D candidate in
MechE working with Professor [UNKNOWN].
So, this is Dr. Daniel Hoehener
who's a post doc at MIT and
an engineer in Duckietown Engineering.
And he's currently out of town.
And we are interested in safety
verification which is to
detect possible future collisions.
For multiple vehicles in the consideration
of uncertainty and human operators.
We're working really hard to
ensure safety in [UNKNOWN] town.
So here is a motivation.
So the car collided with
another coming from the left.
This collision could have been avoided,
if there had been communication between
the cars or other smart infrastructure.
So, traffic accidents cause a lot
of fatalities and injuries.
And also there are limited
infrastructure resources which is, for
example, traffic rules.
So one of the resulting
problems is traffic congestion,
to address this problem,
we proposed to use smart infrastructure,
that coordinates cars
to guarantee safety and
to efficiently use the limited sources,
unlimited sources.
But the main challenges to deal with
a complex interconnected system.
So the complexity is
the main challenge here.
So in general intersection coordination
there are several objectives.
First it must guarantee safety,
meaning no crashes inside an intersection.
Second, it must have liveness,
which means all of the cars can cross
the intersection within finite time.
So this situation in this
figure is not allowed.
Third, our controller must optimize some
performance metrics to efficiently
use limited resources.
Lastly, the controller has to be robust,
meaning it has to work well,
even when there are some unpredictive
errors and disturbances like this.
So in the coordination model during
the first half of the classes,
we will design a decentralized controller
to guarantee safety and liveness.
And in the project,
we will design a centralized controller,
even when there are vehicles that
are not following the traffic rules.
So actually, yeah, so
by designing a centralized controller,
we can guarantee performance optimally,
and robustness.
Thank you, so, then this talk is from,
yeah, Dr. Javier Alonso-Mora.
>> Okay, good afternoon everybody.
So I am Javier Alonso-Mora.
I'm a Postdoctoral Associate
here in CSAIL at MIT.
And I'm working with a group
of Professor Daniela Rus,
there are a few faces here
also from the same group.
So Yes, I am coming from, my background,
I'm coming from the other
side of the Atlantic.
So I did my PhD in ETH Zurich with
a group of autonomous systems lab.
And I did it in collaboration
with Disney Research Zurich.
So that's why you can see some funny
videos that that are for entertainment.
And people they need to ask,
you're playing with robots and
you even get paid for it.
So, yeah robotics is the cool.
And so, I'm in general, I'm interested
about the smart cities of the future,
where we will have thousands, millions of
robots that cooperate with each other and
they collaborate in many tasks.
So, some of them, you can think of
[UNKNOWN] and mobility on demand.
All others could be having
[UNKNOWN] helicopters and
UAVs for surveillance,
reconnaissance, or inspection.
So, my work in particular is on [UNKNOWN].
One of them is motion planning.
So, how do we compute trajectories for
robots,
so that it's safe, that they don't
collide with other obstacles.
And in particular when they
are in dynamic environments like
what you see in this video here.
So you see a vehicle a UAV and that one
has to avoid collisions with a human.
And it will also have to avoid
collisions with all our robots.
We have applied it to UAV's, but
also to autonomous wheelchairs, or
also mobile manipulators that
collaborate in the factory floor.
The second part of this now,
so we have motion planning.
They know how to navigate.
But we will have hundreds or
thousands of robots.
So the next question is, how do we
control this large team of robots?
And how do we transform
the specification of a human?
So let's say the humans says, you,
1000 robots, go and inspect this area.
How do we convert that into
controllers of [UNKNOWN] tasks for
each one of the robots individually?
And also human swarm interaction
is related in this sense.
So how does the human interact with them?
So one of the example of our work
is the one you see on the top.
So these were the pixel bots.
We have up to 50 small robots.
They are around this size.
And we can change their position and
color to display images.
So was an easy way that an artist, or any
non roboticist could design an animation.
And then we have the robots display here.
You can see ways that the human
will interact with them.
Instead of controlling its
degree of freedom independently,
that will be its position, he can control
overall shapes like the mouth or the eyes.
And now here, I'm also working
into extending these algorithms
towards autonomous driving within
the Toyota [UNKNOWN] Autonomy project.
So when you have autonomous cars,
self-driving cars,
you might have seen Tesla's autopilot and
things like those.
But in general,
it can get very challenging.
Imagine a self-driving car,
like any of these tricycles,
driving in this environment.
So the car needs to be
aware of its environment.
It needs to know where it is going,
where it is.
It also needs to be aware of all the other
people around it, all the other vehicles,
all the other humans.
And what are we going to do?
So there is tons of different
things to reason about.
And [UNKNOWN] and [UNKNOWN] space.
So motion planning in general is very
hard in this kind of environment.
So next, yeah okay, so within Duckietown,
my work is I'm collaborating
with the project
on cooperation together with [UNKNOWN],
and
Daniel, and Michele [UNKNOWN].
And so I will be supporting also multi
robot, and motion planning projects.
I'm particular that of mobility and
demand, ride sharing, and car pooling,
where we are also doing
some work in our research.
I will also provide support for
collision avoidance, and
motion planning in dynamic environments.
And in particular, together with Michelle
Cap who is there in the side of the room.
So he's visiting researcher
within LIDS with Emilio Frazzoli.
And he has also experience on motion
planning and material coordination.
This is for example, one example of his
work, where there were two buggies and
they had to coordinate their
paths towards each other.
So we will like to do something
like this in Duckietown also.
We will like to have the robots be
able to compute the trajectory, and
avoid collisions with other robots.
Be able to understand what
the other robot want to do, and
to negotiate intersections
while overtaking for example.
So could you have a robot
that it's Checking
the system of the centralized
intersections, for
example, and be able to handle all
this much faster, but still safe.
So this is some of the challenges
that we face within Duckietown, so
thank you, and next I would like to
introduce my colleague Luca Carlone.
>> Okay, thanks for
the introduction, and hi everyone.
That's me.
Okay, so I'm Luca Carlone.
I'm a post doc in the Laboratory for
Information Decision System at MIT.
I'm also a member of the Agile Robotics
Group led by Professor Sertac Karaman.
Before joining MIT, I got my PhD
from Politecnico di Torino in Italy.
I spent a couple of years as a post doc
at Georgia Tech where I met Micha, and
I was also visiting research at the
University of California Santa Barbara.
So, I have a lot of interests,
most of those are about robotics.
I'm very excited about robotic perception
and navigation, and very excited about
nonlinear estimation and other concern
optimization up by to mobile robotics,
including distributed optimization and
graph theory as well.
So I want to give you a few examples
of application I've been dealing with
in my research.
So in general,
I do care about perception in general, and
what you learn is called the problem of
simultaneous localization and mapping.
There is the problem of estimating
the position of the robot, and
also the map of
the surrounding environment.
I'm very passionate about sensor fusion.
In this case, here the video shows
an example in which a robot is carrying
two sensors, a camera and
a national measurement unit.
It's using these two sensors to track
the position, the trajectory of the robot
itself as well as to reconstruct
the map of the environment.
So you can see that there
is the image here, and
there is somebody's not
really a robotic example.
It's a human carrying like this sensor
suite in a three stories building,
and there's a 3D construction
of the building itself.
In general, I'm also very passionate
about dramatic aspects, computer vision.
So for those of you working in vision,
you will know about the problem
of structure for motion.
And I like the algorithmic aspects
of robotics as well as theoretical
aspects of robotics, but I've been
doing a lot of implementation as well.
So in this example here, these are the
tests that we did with ARL last November,
and we are deploying
a team of four robots.
We're in charge of doing
distributed mapping and
distributed destination
in some unknown building.
Recently, I'm getting very excited
about things outside perception.
In particular, I am exploring the the
intersection between perception and
planning, and
what is called active sensing.
So active sensing in like few words is
the problem of planning the emotion of
the robot, such that it is able to collect
as much information as possible about
the environment, so
it's a decision making process.
Here, some more advertisement about
the work of my colleague, Chris Beall,
at Georgia Tech.
That's an example of 3D reconstruction of
the roads around campus at Georgia Tech,
and Chris here is playing
back the 3D reconstruction
following the trajectory of the car,
moving around.
We see the trajectory,
like the 3D construction is pretty dense.
And of course, we are not able to
reconstruct the things that are moving, so
the moving cars.
Everything pretty exciting and
I hope we see more of this kind
of research in Duckietown.
But let me tell me more about what's
challenging about these kind of problems.
So in general, we're not speaking about
perception, you have to imagine a very
simple thing, you have to imagine
this flow of information.
There is a robot observing the real world.
To observe the real world,
the robot is using some on-board sensors,
which in our case, for Duckietown,
will be immediate camera.
And then, there is some reasoning on-board
the robot, let's say a collection of
algorithms, processing this input data,
and transforming this input data into
a coherent representation
of the surrounding world.
So that's like a very good
overview on perception.
Then, I'm listing here a bunch
of challenges that I'm
listing as challenges to
relocalization and mapping.
But I'm pretty sure that everybody
working in perception finds pretty much
the same challenge,
really like a huge problem on most robots.
So first of all, Robots has to be
this kind of representation, but
possibly as using very
different sensor data.
In Duckietown, we have cameras,
but in general the robots,
they have very fancy sensors on board, and
we still have to deal with modeling and
doing inference on very
different sensor data.
That are challenges about scalability.
I was showing you in the previous slide,
this video about the 3D map of
the roads around Georgia Tech.
Behind this 3D map,
there is a huge optimization
problem with millions of variables.
So we have to be very smart
about how the inference and
the estimation part scales
in the size of the problem.
We also care about being fast and
incremental in the way we build this
model of the world for a simple reason.
The robot is to react real time to
what's happening in the world, and
that's why it needs to have a real time
understanding of the world itself.
Challenges are everywhere and
robotics are about robustness.
Sorry.
Okay, about robustness because the data
from the sensor will be noisy and
will be prone to outliers.
And in general, you may also get about
performance guarantees about seeing
theoretical things, about what you get as
the output of your estimation process.
The list of challenges is not on here,
there are many things.
For example, this is an example
from Google with doing some things
that are similar to what I will discuss in
Duckietown about trajectory estimation,
and that's actually the backbone
of Google Street View for example.
So in case we have to do
like city scale mapping,
you really care about being smart,
about data structure.
You care about being smart,
about the data that you want to save.
So there is a huge issue about data
compression in long term navigation, and
of course if the robot has to be smart and
to interact with humans,
you also care about this representation
being rich in terms of semantics.
So beside deconstructing
the geometry of this scene,
you want to attach some meaning,
some understanding to this reconstruction.
This slide is about how we learn more
about these challenges in Duckietown.
So Duckietown may seem apparently like
a simple example, but it actually contains
more scale, all the challenges that I
was mentioning in the previous slide.
So you will get sensor data from
a real robot, from a real sensor.
You still manage the sensing part,
and I will tell
you more about how to implement
this SLAM which is the acronym for
Simultaneous Localization and Mapping,
so this 3D reconstruction aspect.
And at the end of this, hopefully,
we will get to go a coherent
map of the roads in Duckietown.
So again, the challenge is a road there,
meaning that you have to deal with noisy
measurements, we have to deal
with large-scale optimization.
You have to be smart about data
association outliers, you have to deal
with the resource constraints where you
do all these things, so many challenges.
In this step, it is manageable and
that emphasize the teaching
aspects of these problems.
So I will be in charge of
the simultaneous organization and
mapping module in Duckietown.
And I will also, [UNKNOWN] with
the global organizational module.
Beside taking care of the busy modules,
I propose a couple of
ideas about the projects.
In particular, these two ideas
are about figuring out what is the best
representation, what is the best,
let's say, map.
Of the word that we can have,
that is most useful for
taking position on that representation.
So that's the project about
[INAUDIBLE] representation and
the second part is more about
the implementation as related to resource
constraints, visual and
[INAUDIBLE] navigation.
So if I give you an NMU,
national measurement unit and a camera.
How good can we do this 3D construction
with very limited resources?
Beside that,
I'm super available to speak with you and
have more ideas about
perception of other projects.
So, thank you very much.
And I will introduce now,
it's a great pleasure for
me to introduce the CEO of
Duckietown Engineering.
We'll, you're welcome and
we'll tell you more about challenges
related autonomous driving and perception.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> It's a pleasure.
>> Thank you very much.
>> So I've already done one really bad
thing, which was not having the right
version of my operating system for
Andres's screen recording.
Hopefully, this is gonna work.
And so, let's give this a shot.
We will see.
Go away.
Insert new card.
Should work.
This one.
So, how much time do I have?
So, is there other business
beyond this today?
So I thought I would, well, first of all,
I wanna to thank the mentors for
their presentations.
They really uncovered a lot
of great research issues and
I wanna thank all of you for being here.
With the remaining time today,
I thought I'd give sort of some thoughts
on kind of a corporate strategy
discussion for autonomous vehicles and
I thought I would like to
use recent media references.
And so did anyone hear,
this was about almost a year ago
when Jen-Hsun Huang from Nvidia and
Elon Musk from Tesla said
self-driving cars were solved.
Has anyone seen that?
Now, they are two
incredible visionaries and
it's been described to me that one decade
to you or I is one decade to them.
Basically, they just have a compressed
time line scale where nothing is
impossible.
But one of the things that the said was
that Musk, minimized the challenges
necessary to achieve a future where
self-driven cars will become commonplace.
I view it as a solved problem said,
Musk who compared autonomous cars with
elevators that used to require operators,
but are now self-service and
this is a year ago.
More recently, some of the statements are
even more aggressive in terms of how close
we might be.
John Markov in the New York Times
who broke the story,
the Google Car back in October 2010.
He wrote an article recently.
For now,
self-driving cars still need humans.
And he quoted, Musk as saying,
in a conference call with reporters,
he said, the autopilot was probably
better than a person right now.
And that within a year or two, it'd be
technically feasible to summon a Tesla
from the opposite side of the country.
>> Which is wow.
So and I was actually quoted in
this article as well and I said,
the issue of interacting with people
inside and outside the car exposes
real issues and the ability to
know if the driver is ready and
if you giving them enough notice to
hand off is a really tricky question.
And I would say that in general,
there's this onion of difficult
autonomous vehicles and we sort of peel
away different layers of the onion.
And for our Ducky and Duckytown,
it's the Ducky robot interaction problem.
Is the Ducky ready to take control?
And do we have a good model
of the Ducky's behavior?
So I thought that if we think
about human driven autonomous
cars in a place like Austin or
in Mountainview, California.
We can look at the state of the art and
maybe as the semester unfolds,
we can have sort of a discussion about
what are the right research challenges?
What are the right things
to do in a university?
to do in a company?
And how do we temper
the expectations of the public and
have an influence on things like policy?
So for myself, so what caused this big,
almost hysteria or
this huge interest in autonomous vehicles
which have this great potential?
It's really kudos to the Google
self-driving car team and
this is myself with my grad student,
Ross Finman, in July of last year.
We got to ride in one of the Google Lexus
prototypes and I posted on Facebook.
Amazing ride in the Google Car today,
I felt like I was on
the beach at Kitty Hawk.
The performance of
the car was flawless and
that was 2014, and
that was a yer and a half ago.
And so for my personal with,
I've worked on autonomous vehicles for
a long time now since 1987
when I started grad school.
And I worked with underwater vehicles,
various other types of robots.
I've done a lot of work on Slam,
which Luca gave a great introduction to.
The real intense experience I had
was the DARPA Urban Challenge ad
the Urban Challenge was
a competition organized by DARPA.
We were competing for a $2 million prize.
It was 2 million for first place,
1 million for second place,
half a million for third place and nothing
for fourth place and I remember that.
And we had this amazing team with
my faculty colleagues, Seth Teller,
John Howe, Muili Frazzoli and
just an amazing group of post [INAUDIBLE]
students many who have gone on
to do really successful things.
And so, this is some video
from our system operating, so
we had a Land Rover LR3 that had more
sensors and computers than any other team.
We tried to do real-time vision-based
following of the lanes not following GPS
too much.
We built a local map that moved along with
the vehicle and we used an ROT, rapidly
[UNKNOWN] motion planner to control
the motion of the robot in real-time.
And if you use vision, you have to deal
with things like looking into the Sun and
dealing with difficult
lighting conditions.
And it was just an intense and really
challenging, yet rewarding experience.
And one thing I look back now and some
of the people that are in this picture,
and some of the things they've
gone onto to do is just amazing.
And so not to claim too much
personal credit, it's more that
something about MIT that's amazing is
you have colleagues here in this room.
Some are gonna go start real companies and
become real successful,
some are gonna be tenure
professors at pier schools.
Many are going to make really big impacts.
And so for example,
Yoshi Kuwata who was our post-doc for
motion planning is in here somewhere,
just a little hard to see.
He was involved in landing the SpaceX
rocket, which is pretty cool and
Ed Olson's a tenured
professor at Michigan.
Surtash is tenure tracked here.
Emilio has the startup autonomy.
Pretty amazing group of people and
I was just so lucky to work with them.
And really, if I say,
what I like to do in my career.
Way back, I used to write a lot of code
and I tried to develop algorithms and
I still work on papers with
my students and post-docs.
But I think it's the ability
to bring people together and
have teams create things that I
didn't think were possible, or
create this sort of, the teams that
come together to work on hard problems.
And I think mobility
really is a hard problem.
I think even though the media might say
you can go sleep in your car in a year or
two, there's some great
research challenges.
And so it may not seem that there's
much connection between this and
that, at one abstraction they
really are very similar.
So here trying to use a single camera,
a computer running Linux,
and some very simple hardware.
We have the elements of closing the loop,
so generating control
signals based on some representation that
is built-in response to perceptual data.
So for ourselves in DARPA urban challenge,
let me just say a little
more about our vehicle.
So, of course,
what sensors you have really controls
your destiny in a lot of ways.
We had a Velodyne laser scanner, so
a $75,000 HDL-64 Velodyne scanner.
It generated a million data points
per second, it generates range and
intensity data.
And so you might say that
this makes the problem much,
much easier than just
using a single camera.
But in actual fact,
some of the challenges, how you represent
the environment, how you deal with
uncertainty, how you achieve robustness.
They still remain,
regardless of what type of sensor you use.
We had a lot of computation.
We had 10 blades in a blade cluster.
Each had four cores,
which may not seem like a lot now, but
to power that blade cluster at the time,
we needed 3.5 kilowatts of power.
We needed a two-kilowatt air
conditioner on the roof to cool it.
And we had 5 cameras, 15 radars,
and we were just a little over
the top in our system design.
But we didn't want to be
limited by computation,
we wanted to try advance algorithms.
So at the end of the day, Carnegie Mellon
came in first, Stanford came in second,
Virginia Tech came in third,
we came in a very distant fourth place.
And the folks that led the Stanford and
Carnegie Mellon teams,
turns out they're at the core of
the Google self-driving car team.
So the history is that Sebastian Thrun,
who was at Stanford at the time,
founded a secret team of about
10 folks initially at Google X.
And they just started
driving on public roads.
They built a Prius, they automated it,
and they were up to 140,000 miles
when John Markoff broke the story and said
Google's cars drive themselves in traffic.
And so since then they're up to
order of 1.4 million miles traveled.
And their efforts have created a big
interest in this area that caused many
companies in the car industry to,
unconventional high tech startups.
Companies like Tesla, companies like
Apple, as well as companies like Ford,
GM, Toyota, etc.
And so it's a really exciting
time to be working in this area.
And let's see.
In the spirit of,
I've shown this a lot lately and I feel
I should stop showing it, but if you've
not seen this before, this is kind of fun.
This is something that
happens with Cornell for
us, and let's see if this will work.
See this one.
Is that gonna work?
>> The 79 is trying to pass, and
has passed the chase vehicle for Skynet.
The 26 vehicle [CROSS-TALK]
>> And talas is gonna pass.
>> Very aggressive.
>> Woah!
>> We on our first collision.
>> Crash at turn one.
>> Boy.
That is, that's a bold maneuver for
a MIT to drive past and I've-
>> Okay, so that wasn't our finest moment.
But that was the MIT vehicle trying
to pass the Cornell vehicle.
And one of the things I think I'd
want you to learn in this class
is that autonomy is hard,
it's challenging.
And because our vehicle was
following its perception rather than
a very precise set of GPS waypoints.
Yeah, it had more uncertainty
in its representation and
it was easier for bad things to happen.
This is the computer
eye view of the crash.
So we have three cameras shown here.
And even though, with our eyes we can see
that's a car, we're on a big wide open
road, it's pretty clear that we
shouldn't go too close to that.
The root map actually just
had a single lane and
the Cornell vehicle started moving
just slowly enough that our
classifier couldn't classify
that it was a vehicle.
And in fact we had about five bugs,
they had about five bugs we'd been trying
to pass them for three or four minutes,
and the interaction of those bugs
created this almost laughable accident.
We did combine our data logs and we wrote
sort of a 32 page purevuge accident
report general article on this
>> For the journal of field robotics,
we talked about this in other incidents,
but one of the things that even
though if we wanted to for
trying to win the race in 2007,
you would probably make
different system design choices.
We were curiosity driven
to push basic research.
And one of the things that we did was,
Albert Wang, wrote a vision based
navigation system for his PhD,
in which we took the Spark's waypoints
given by the global controller,
and online tried to use laser and
vision data to fit the curves and
try to steer the vehicle in real time.
And this is an example of testing it
in a place we did near Los Angeles.
We rented a test facility
where we could drive.
Actually, no, this is from the real race.
This is from the qualifying event for the
urban challenge and showing the vehicle
driving on this curved road with
weight points that are very far apart.
And occasionally, the vehicle would
get confused by shadows and so forth.
And it would stop and start.
But it did lead to a strong PhD thesis.
And in some ways, the task of using
vision to try to follow the lanes,
to navigate off of the signs, text.
That embraces actually some
still pretty hard issues.
So this was back in 2007, and
if you flash forward to 2015,
going back to what Elon Musk said,
I would say that self-driving
vehicles have a perception problem.
You've probably seen some of
these amazing Google videos.
People seen the taking
the blind person to Taco Bell?
Everyone seen that one?
And then, driving on city streets in 2014.
And then the new prototype vehicle,
that was the initial release of that.
And the way I describe it, and I have just
such awe and respect for the Google team.
It's really an amazing project,
that might one day transform mobility.
But the technology is
somewhat misunderstood and
has been overhyped,
at least by some, I think.
And I think if you say that this is a self
solved problem, it's important to realize
just because it works for Google doesn't
mean it will work for everyone else.
And it relates to how the vehicle maps
the world, what sensors it has, and
how you design the system.
So if, so what I've done recently.
Well, any questions so far?
Anything you guys want to discuss?
This okay Andrea?
So if the-
>> We don't have a mic for them.
>> Okay, so we can't have a discussion.
Okay, well you can ask anyway.
Yeah, please ask, just shout.
>> So there is one question.
>> Yes.
>> When you said okay, this works for
Google but it might not work for
everyone else.
What do you mean?
Google not work with different sensors or-
>> I think what I would say is that if
you think about, I always fall back
to the question of representation.
How do you represent the environment?
What assumptions do you make?
And so the question is,
why would it not work for
everyone else if it works for Google?
So Google, for example,
they use very detailed prior maps so
the reflectants of the laser
scanner off of the road surface.
So one big difference is if you were using
vision only like this vehicle versus using
a laser scanner, that's a big difference.
Another difference is do you
have a very precise prior map?
Versus not having a prior map.
These are some of the choices in
an autonomy system that you have to make.
Make sense?
Yeah?
Speak up.
>> Do you know if Google
has to have a prior map?
>> My understanding is that they do and
I can point you to places that describe
how their car works, and
I'm not saying that it's the wrong choice.
They've had some amazing performance and
especially, it gets better and
better with time.
So just to help convey my thoughts
that Duckietown engineers
will have a bright future
ahead in other endeavors,
if that they're really hard
problems here to work on.
And so one of the things I did is I
started collecting data from my own
commuting, driving around Boston.
So from a place called
Newton where I live,
this is making a left turn across traffic.
Where to the right,
there are cars as far as the eye can see.
And to the left, there are cars coming
pretty quickly with a mailbox and
a tree including things.
And so, you can see the difficulty I
have in trying to make a left turn.
And so, the way that I did that was
actually by waving at another person.
And so one thing I hope we can get to the
stage where we actually have Duckietown
traffic and so there's traffic
interaction, and the ability for
vehicles to communicate with another.
Another challenge is does anyone
here know Coolidge Corner?
So in Brookline, here's driving outbound
on Beacon Street at Coolidge Corner.
See, there's a policeman there and
they just raise their arm even
though there's a green light.
So the policeman, the trolley,
the see, branch of the green line.
He just stuck his arm up and
that means stop.
In fact, the full sequence for
that one, this is a passing,
flashing lights with one police officer
waving me through a red light and
then it'll go up to
the next intersection and
the police officer will stop me at
a green light, the one I showed before.
So as a programmer, how do you write the
code that says, always stop for red lights
unless there's a man on the side of
the road that's waving you through?
>> Or always go through green lights
unless there's a man sticking out his arm
and telling you to stop.
Now maybe that's easier in that
the car senses any obstacle, but
sometimes in Boston or crowded cities.
If you're always worrying about
someone stepping into the road,
maybe how do you do the decisions?
So, went back to this
representation question.
If you think of the difference
between the top and the bottom,
this is one day and
this is four days later.
What's difference between the two videos?
And hopefully, you'll recognizer
where this is filmed from.
So anybody, what's the-
>> Different lighting conditions.
Sunny day, drowsy day.
By the way,
look how close this truck is coming.
But there's another change and
see this, the lanes, they're gone.
They repaved the bridge,
so the lines are gone.
So if your representation assumes that you
have this very detailed prior map and so
how does the vehicle decide on the fly?
How to navigate in such a situation?
So the next day, I walked across and
the lines are gone and
let alone what we have today
in terms of adverse weather.
With snow, could you drive
across the Manesuv bridge today?
What would be involved?
So, there's a lot of great
questions buried in this.
And I think for me,
one of them is robustness.
How do you achieve robust perception?
And if we isolate the different
academic disciplines of control and
motion planning, and things like slum.
Sometimes when you isolate different
components of the problem,
you can make it easier to
get like a paper written.
But somehow, it's putting the whole
system together anything that can be
trusted that requires some extra lead.
And that's why I think,
there's a lot of great level great
graduate level material here.
So just briefly, how the Google car works.
This is from a screenshot from
a talk they gave a few years ago.
You build the car, you build a platform,
you give it sensors,
computers and then you make a map
in advance and then you localize.
Localization, where am I,
you position relative to the map.
And then if you know your position,
you can predict what you should see.
And then based on that, I think of
it as predicting the expected and
handling the unexpected.
You can then deal with the unexpected and
track vehicles, and pedestrians.
And then finally, solve the motion
planning problem control and
control to go through the world.
So this mapping and
localization piece is here Google uses,
this very accurate representation of
the reflectance of the road surface.
And so one of the challenges you're gonna
have, especially with these inexpensive
cameras is just dealing with the sort
of messiness of real world vision data.
And so if you remember before, I showed
the video of the police officer waving,
raising his hands.
This is at the same intersection and
tell me what you see in this picture.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Anyone see the sun?
>> Yep.
Yes.
>> Anyone see the traffic lights?
>> Yeah.
>> Anyone see the police
officer standing right here?
>> So actually,
the police officer is right here.
These are the shadows of his legs.
>> So, there are some big questions.
So to sort of wrap up and
summarize, well, I can-
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Of course.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> So this is-
>> Single-
>> I would say, I see it [INAUDIBLE].
>> Probably would.
Yeah and
my windscreen needs to be cleaned off,
and you might sort of move your head.
Actually, what happened is the police
officer, he made eye contact with me.
Even though I was sort of blinded
by the light, he walked out and
he did this sort of wave at me and
I nodded my head.
So, he turned his back to me and
was waving passengers across
even though the light was green.
And so I drive through that
intersection every day and
I know it pretty much between 5
o'clock and 6 o'clock exactly,
there's a police officer there and
then he or she leaves at 6 o'clock.
And so I knew to expect
the police officer and he, and
I communicated that he would be there.
So, yes?
>> I do have an answer for that.
>> Yes.
>> There other sensors that,
we would be able to mark, [INAUDIBLE].
If you see the-
>> Changes.
So they can look at the Sun and
look at the [INAUDIBLE]
contrast [INAUDIBLE] contrast.
So they will be able to
see the [INAUDIBLE].
>> And
there are high dynamic range cameras.
There are ways to use polarization,
they probably are.
So when I think about the big questions
going forward, the technical challenges.
So, one of them is maintaining the maps.
So, maintaining the maps and
the map-based approach.
Adverse weather as we can see out the
window is tough, interacting with people,
both inside and
outside the car, other cars and
what I would call robust computer vision.
So, who here is familiar an ROC curve?
Any of you heard of an ROC curve?
Receive operating characteristic curve?
You might have have seen Precision Recall
Curve, PR curve in machine learning?
And so if you think about,
I may allowed to write on the board or
will it not be captured?
>> Yes and that's [INAUDIBLE].
>> Just here.
>> So, we have the probability of false
alarm and the probability of detection.
So, it might be this one right here.
The perfect sensor would give you perfect
detection with no false alarms, but
real sensors don't have that,
they have something like kinda this.
Where you have to choose a trade off,
like maybe you could get
this level of detection.
But with this level of false alarms,
which probably is not very good for
many applications.
People have spent years
improving sensors and
algorithms to try to move
kind of in this direction.
And so, I think that the real
challenge is how do we get to
this point on the curve in
terms of robustness and
then thinking about how it impacts
the control Control algorithm.
So if you've heard of the levels of
autonomy, so level two, level three,
level four.
So level 4 is fully autonomous,
you could go to sleep in your car.
Level 2 is an active safety system
where the human must pay attention,
but the things like anti-lock brakes or
lane keeping assist or
adaptive cruise control
will jump in to stop.
Level 3 is in the middle, which is partial
automation, and you could argue that Tesla
auto pilot is level three, although they
would probably describe it as level two,
but where you don't have
to pay as much attention.
And the big question for
level 3 is if it's partial automation,
you give control to the car for,
say, 98% of the time.
Sometimes it might give
you a lot of warning,
sometimes it might more suddenly
hand back control to you.
And so,
can humans be trusted to pay attention?
Level 4 is can you make your system so
good that the number of false alarms is
not too high on terms of stopping and
starting unnecessarily while
still keeping robust detection?
And so it would be interesting
to have a sort of level 2.99,
as I call it, as like a third approach
where you try to keep the human in charge,
but jump in if needed,
if something might be going wrong.
So, in a ducky town context,
where we have ducky robot interaction.
>> Yes, you have.
>> Yeah, so there are ways to explore.
So this, I think, is a nice platform for
adjusting some of these questions.
>> There's a question about level 4,
I'm talking about human.
If we look at statistics about human
drive in terms of how many false alarms?
>> Yes.
>> Where would you put them?
Because they're not perfectly level 4.
>> Yeah.
>> So where would you?
>> Yeah that's a tough one.
>> If you were like,
trying to optimize for
a certain goal, just replacing the
performance of the, what would that be?
>> Yeah, that's a tough one,
I think you know,
one of my colleagues, like Ed Olson
in Michigan has said that, what if we
could get to the level of the probability
of getting struck by lightning?
What's the probability of
something like that happen?
Order of a few years ago 57 people were
struck by lightning and killed in the US.
Terrible, but it's order of 32,000
fatalities per year in cars in the U.S. So
I think that the humans,
it depends on the task, really.
So in some of the image net
deep learning examples of
visual abstract ignition off the internet,
like using, say,
a million images harvested from
the internet, sometimes the images are so
challenging that human performance is
only 95% detection, 95% precision.
But I think for
driving down the street and
sort of recognizing that there's
a parked car on the side of the road or
something, I think humans are actually
quite good at the detection part.
Maybe it's the integrated not speeding,
paying attention, doing the right thing.
So the short answer is,
I guess I don't know.
There's some good questions there.
So Mr. Citio, how are we doing?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Okay, so a little bit more.
So what I thought I might just do
with my final maybe five minutes,
a little bit on
the historical perspective.
And so has anyone heard of Hans Moravec?
He really should go down in
history as a famous roboticist.
He, this is a-
>> Back in the 1970s,
Moravec started what he thought
would be a very simple task.
He hit a problem.
>> There were things that
at first looks like it might be easier
because human beings do them so
easily, that, in fact, turned out
to be heartbreakingly difficult.
And those were things like looking at
the world and seeing what objects there
were in front of the camera that
was connected to the computer, and
moving around competently in the world,
you know, the typical robot tasks.
>> So this-
>> Each slash here represents 15 minutes
of computing time.
>> Which is kind of amazing.
So this is from Stanford.
They did an outdoor set of experiments,
and
they had a single camera on a sliding
mechanism that could take nine pictures.
And he did this sort of nested
stereo approach where he had
some camera images pairs were close
to one another some were further.
The further ones gave greater disparities.
The closer ones made it easier
to do correspondence and
they would take one snapshot,
process that data and
then it took 15 minutes of
processing to move and go again.
So and in that 15 minutes the sun would
move and the shadows would move and
so this this made it hard
to do real experiments.
But Moravec was really ahead of his time.
He's one of the first to do it.
And so as Lucca mentioned, this problem
of SLAM mapping and localization of
correcting the uncertainty in your motion
while concurrently building a map.
This is an example from one of my Ph.D.
students recently.
This is something I've worked a lot
on my career, and it's, in many ways,
aspects of SLAM are quite well
understood now in robotics.
But I still think they're great
research challenges and questions.
So the mapping localization
could be one area where
there could be interesting things to do.
Would you agree with that?
>> Okay.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah, and so he gave an intro to SLAM.
So funny I'll just say in terms of that
while mapping a localization is difficult,
I think about these different
axes of difficulty,
like, how you represent the world,
how you perform inference, and
how you build systems and
make them autonomous.
And let's see.
So I think I should wrap up.
I think what I want to say is
just a real quick example.
Some more recent work in SLAM.
So some lessons learned, you know,
recently that you can build rich dense
representations of the world with GPUs.
So we don't have the GPU on the Duckiebot,
but GPUs and
this highly parallel processing
they enable are kind of exciting.
This is from some work in Ireland,
a guy named Tom Whelon and
John McDonald,
his advisor who we collaborated with.
And this is mapping a small
apartment in Ireland,
it's about three years ago,
using a single handheld Kinect sensor.
And you can see the sort of quality of
the reconstruction that you can get.
I'll zoom in here.
And just with the single
sensor move through the world,
you could build a model like this.
So that's using depth and
information from an RGBD camera,
and if you combine it with SLAM, you can
do this as an example of loop closure.
Going around part of this data center
where you can build a larger system where
you combine representing
your post trajectory,
the sort of things that Luca is a world
leader in with building the dense models.
And here you can see a little
fly through the model.
So I'd love it if robots could build
models of the world online and
then match those against past
experiences to try to navigate robustly.
One of the exciting research topics for
the future is connecting in objects.
So, as mentioned in one of
the earlier presentations,
so if you think of another historical
pioneer, was a guy named David Maher.
Who's heard of David Maher?
He wrote a very influential
book on vision.
He was here at MIT and he passed
away well before his time, sadly.
But he said vision is a process of
discovering from images what is present in
the world and where it is.
And this sort of interplay
between what and
where, I think if we develop a more
object-based understanding of the world,
where we can think about recognizing like
the information conveying about objects,
and we can use that to
know where we are and
to use knowing where we are to
predict what objects we could see.
That's quite exciting.
And so an example I'll show another time,
one of my students, Sudeep Pillai,
has worked on mapping an object-based,
combining object-recognition with SLAM.
So to conclude,
my dream is persistent autonomy and
lifelong map learning in environments
that are highly dynamic.
And how you robustly integrate mapping and
localization with real-time planning and
control.
And so
this whole question of robustness and
how you approach it from
a more formal perspective.
And then representation, how you
represent the world in terms of not just
the geometry of the world, the appearance,
but also the more semantic understanding.
And then how you deal with change in
the world, dynamically understanding
scenes and learning about how objects
behave and achieve robustness.
And my final slide has an advertisement
for joining Docutown Engineering Company.
It's an extremely exciting time
to work in mobile sensing.
And Postdocs and PhD students that
can build real-time 3D perception,
navigation and motion planning
systems are in high demand.
Virtual reality, mobile devices,
self-driving vehicles, drones.
The Google, Apple,
Facebook's of the world and Uber.
The traditional companies like Ford and
Delphi, and
there's a lot of great
start-ups out there.
So I think that if you have
an interest and a passion in this and
you work on building
mobile autonomous systems,
then there will be great opportunities for
you in the future.
So I'll stop there and
answer any questions.
[INAUDIBLE] Finish with the lecture.
>> Okay.
Is there more?
>> I just have a final slide.
>> Okay.
Sure.
Let's do your final slide.
All right.
[INAUDIBLE].
I happen to be the CTR in this endeavor.
Maybe one day I will be, he will be the
CTR, and I will be the CO or the founder.
>> Who knows.
So I must be the one to
be technically precise.
So actually,
there is very [INAUDIBLE] GPO.
We have a video card for GPO.
And apparently this is the benchmark for
that.
And it's a-
>> So
this is compared to a real GPO
that you designed in your laptop.
But apart from that,
the presentation was very good, John.
>> Okay.
And so again, the next steps,
tonight you will receive
an email with a [UNKNOWN].
Please read carefully to the instructions.
There will be several conventions about
how to chose user names for example.
And if you follow
the instructions closely,
then basically this class
will become possible.
Right, if you cannot get through this
phase where at least everybody sign
up to do everything, then will be very
nervous about the rest of the class.
Then after Tuesday, everything's on Slack.
If you have any problem for which you
cannot find that channel on Slack,
then just send us a personal message
on Slack, don't send us email.
And so the next steps, on Wednesday
we have this, it's optional, but
it would be great if everybody
was here on Wednesday.
On Thursday, the Russian with Michelle,
[UNKNOWN] He will challenge
you to a drinking game.
>> No.
No.
>> Sorry.
Is everyone here 21?
>> Don't pass.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
>> So that's [INAUDIBLE].
>> [UNKNOWN]
>> No drinking games.
>> So there's no-
>> Okay,
for the record, we're not asking for
your age on the sign-up form.
So it's kind of like don't pass,
don't come.
>> And then-
>> So if you survive Thursday night, then
on Friday morning we have the first lab at
[UNKNOWN] where you get your ducky box.
Okay, I think this is the end.
I think we're gonna stick around for
another 20,
30 minutes if you want
to ask us questions.
Let's prioritize.
Let's say today now it's more
like questions concerning
your participation to the class.
I'm sure you have plenty of questions
about the Thomas [UNKNOWN] in general,
there will be plenty of time for that.
Thank you.